It's six big groups with a bunch of tutors to
NOTE CONF
each group.
You don't have your own tutor yet and I'm sorry.
NOTE CONF
I'm really hoping they can get that sorted out this
week so that you can get in touch with your
NOTE CONF
own tutor.
But in the meantime, of course, all the tutors there
NOTE CONF
are for supporting all of you, so hopefully it won't
make too much practical difference.
NOTE CONF
All right, that's the red light on.
So let's get going.
NOTE CONF
Right.
What are we doing today?
NOTE CONF
Uh, okay.
So we're back to normal in from B timetable.
NOTE CONF
Um, let's start off with the pet of the lecture.
Ah, so these are the ones I want to show
NOTE CONF
you a couple of weeks ago and mysteriously couldn't find
the picture.
NOTE CONF
So.
Birds, it's really nice when we mix it.
NOTE CONF
I love seeing all the cats and dogs, but it's
also really cool when we get different kinds of pets.
NOTE CONF
So this is banana, is this one I think this
is banana, this is blueberry and this is chia.
NOTE CONF
I think this is also chia.
And that's banana again.
NOTE CONF
And this is satellite.
One of those little fluffy chicks you put on Easter
NOTE CONF
cakes.
So that's very cute.
NOTE CONF
Thank you for that.
Um, And this is a really sweet dog.
NOTE CONF
Unfortunately, I don't know what this dog's name is.
I don't know what the name of this dog is.
NOTE CONF
What's that?
Levi.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so this is Levi.
Very lovely.
NOTE CONF
So thanks for that.
Thanks.
NOTE CONF
Do keep them coming, everybody.
Every pet will get a turn.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
Just to look a little bit quickly at the feedback
NOTE CONF
from the week three quiz, which we'd normally do on
a Monday.
NOTE CONF
So in terms of pals, um, a lot of people
are not planning to.
NOTE CONF
Quite a few of you are planning to.
And some of you have some of you don't know
NOTE CONF
what impulse is.
So hopefully that number is a bit smaller.
NOTE CONF
That impulse came into the lecture to give a shout
out.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's fine if you don't.
So some of the things they're covering, maybe they do
NOTE CONF
sessions on git and so forth, and maybe you're super
proficient at git, then no need to go.
NOTE CONF
Um, but really useful.
We cover git very briefly and informally, because you will
NOTE CONF
be expected to use it next year without being taught
it.
NOTE CONF
If you go to impulse, you'll get much better support
for that because we don't have time to cover it
NOTE CONF
much.
Um, But they do have really, really useful things, stuff
NOTE CONF
about internships.
So I do recommend going if you think the topics
NOTE CONF
are interesting to you.
Okay, so this question I feel I can access support
NOTE CONF
when struggling.
Um, I wasn't that I was I'm a bit concerned
NOTE CONF
about this.
So so 22% are not needing help, which is quite
NOTE CONF
low actually.
Um, 4,043% of you do need some support, but you
NOTE CONF
can get it when you need it.
And that's that's great.
NOTE CONF
But this concerns me.
Only 1.4 are not getting the help they need.
NOTE CONF
That is concerning.
But here this 20 like nearly 32% say only getting
NOTE CONF
finding the support you need sometimes, which is way too
low.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to touch briefly on where to go to
get help, but this is really concerns me.
NOTE CONF
If you feel like you have things that aren't being
dealt with, whether they're academic or personal or anything, please
NOTE CONF
do either come and talk to me about it.
Uh, go and talk to your student advisor and get
NOTE CONF
the support you need.
It's really important that you get what you need.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to go through these responses and thanks very
much for these.
NOTE CONF
Um, mostly quite positive, which is really nice to hear.
Um, a few people saying it's going too slowly, but
NOTE CONF
also people saying it's going too fast, which is inevitable
when it's a really a class with really mixed previous
NOTE CONF
experience.
Um, so I'm doing my best there.
NOTE CONF
If you feel it's going too slowly, sorry.
You just have to suck it up.
NOTE CONF
We can't go to much faster because there are people
with no Java.
NOTE CONF
If you feel it's going too fast, come and talk
to me.
NOTE CONF
I can't make it go much more slowly because we've
got the material to get through.
NOTE CONF
But we can put things in place to to go
over things that you might feel we've gone through too
NOTE CONF
quickly.
Um.
NOTE CONF
BA ba ba ba.
What was the other thing I wanted to pick up
NOTE CONF
on?
Uh, so somebody made the point that the stuff in
NOTE CONF
the lectures is quite easy.
And when you go on to tutorials and labs and
NOTE CONF
assessment, it's much harder.
So there's a bit of a disconnect.
NOTE CONF
Um, so to some extent this is intentional.
The tutorials you're with the tutors.
NOTE CONF
So the the lectures are about getting the basic materials
in.
NOTE CONF
So you know, the stuff, the tutorials about putting that
into practice, that does sometimes mean doing harder things.
NOTE CONF
And that's what the tutors are there for to provide
that structure.
NOTE CONF
And it's the same with the labs.
The demonstrators are there.
NOTE CONF
The lab sessions are not well used.
So if you find the labs, it's a bit harder
NOTE CONF
than what we're doing in lectures.
Yes, it is, because it's putting into practice what we've
NOTE CONF
done.
If you're not clear on that, go to the lectures.
NOTE CONF
The assessment again, this is a balance.
It's pushing a little bit further than we've done in
NOTE CONF
the lectures.
But it shouldn't be really overwhelming.
NOTE CONF
We I think assignment the first assignment does contain material
up to the end of the week for.
NOTE CONF
So if you're trying to do it now, it will
contain things we haven't taught.
NOTE CONF
We're only just teaching now.
Um, but you have plenty of time to get on
NOTE CONF
with that after this stuff has been taught.
So we need to look at the assignments and try
NOTE CONF
to make sure that we're not asking too much.
Um, but anyway, thanks for that.
NOTE CONF
Uh, yeah.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
I think that's all the main things I want to
NOTE CONF
bring up.
Okay, let's get back here.
NOTE CONF
Oh.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So right to go back to this issue if you're
struggling.
NOTE CONF
So first of all with just thinking about everyone B
there's a lot of stuff going on in this course.
NOTE CONF
Maybe like ideally you have time to do everything that
we suggest, but not that's not always the case.
NOTE CONF
For whatever reason, you have a lot of assessment in
another course.
NOTE CONF
You're not well, you've been partying too much, you're really
involved in your societies, whatever, and you don't have as
NOTE CONF
much time as usual.
What should you prioritise?
NOTE CONF
So do prioritise your well-being first.
Do not work yourself into the ground.
NOTE CONF
This will not put you in in good stead for
the rest of the semester, and for life in general.
NOTE CONF
Do use the channels for getting help.
Don't spend ages struggling on your lab assessment or just
NOTE CONF
think this is too hard.
I can't do it.
NOTE CONF
Go along to the drop in sessions and get some
support.
NOTE CONF
Um, pay attention to lectures.
Either come along or make sure you watch them.
NOTE CONF
If you have done this before, that's quite like tart
because you should know a lot of it.
NOTE CONF
But still check in because we we're likely to be
doing some things you haven't done before or talking about
NOTE CONF
in a different way.
If you haven't done it before, this is really important.
NOTE CONF
Um, do go to tutorials.
This is required.
NOTE CONF
We take attendance.
You'll get cross emails if you don't go.
NOTE CONF
No, not cross emails with concern for your wellbeing and
why you're not engaging.
NOTE CONF
But also this is this is the best place to
put in practice things you learn, particularly the tutorials relating
NOTE CONF
to the assignments which will be coming up later on
in the semester.
NOTE CONF
Do keep a consistent practice on the assignment throughout the
semester.
NOTE CONF
We do have a kind of time allowance for three
hours a week the whole time, so don't try not
NOTE CONF
to do all of the final week because that's really
stressful.
NOTE CONF
And then the lab exercises are really important, the core
and the foundation parts.
NOTE CONF
I would say up to this bit.
Just do all of these if you possibly can.
NOTE CONF
It's going to get harder if you're not keeping up
with these.
NOTE CONF
And if you get a bit behind.
Go back to the weeks before and do those optional
NOTE CONF
lab exercises are optional.
Don't worry so much about those, but they're good practice
NOTE CONF
if you have time spending additional time on your assignments.
Okay, I know you guys are all super ambitious and
NOTE CONF
they all want to get really high grades.
And that's okay if you want to spend more time
NOTE CONF
than we suggesting to try and get those extra grades,
but don't prioritise this over keeping up with course material,
NOTE CONF
otherwise you're going to get into trouble later on.
Do the reading.
NOTE CONF
So the reading is definitely less important than the practice.
The reading in a way, is not necessary.
NOTE CONF
We're teaching you everything, pretty much everything you need to
know in the course.
NOTE CONF
The reading can be really useful because it can be
really useful to see a different way of talking about
NOTE CONF
it.
Um, and kind of more thorough explanations, sometimes a bit
NOTE CONF
more time, but I wouldn't prioritise that.
And then things outside the course of what you're learning
NOTE CONF
could be useful.
Not so much of a priority.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
If you need academic help, if you're struggling with it
NOTE CONF
from B, as I say all the time, go to
the lab sessions every day.
NOTE CONF
They're in Appleton, so they're really easy for you to
get to.
NOTE CONF
Um, do go to your tutorials, I know that.
I mean, at the moment I think we're at about
NOTE CONF
two thirds of you going to tutorials, which is okay,
but it's not enough.
NOTE CONF
You should all be going to tutorials.
This is where you learn do use Piazza.
NOTE CONF
Piazza is not used nearly enough, you can get answers
really quickly to any questions, whether it's a question about
NOTE CONF
how things work or a question about logistics of the
course or anything is monitored by the Tas.
NOTE CONF
But also students are on that all the time, and
they're asking if they're answering each other's questions.
NOTE CONF
So it's really useful for you to answer other people's
questions as well.
NOTE CONF
And also we have Q&A in the lecture okay.
In general, not about things, not about everyone.
NOTE CONF
First point of contact is your student advisor who here
knows who their student advisor is.
NOTE CONF
Most of you, not all of you.
Who knows how to find the student advisors?
NOTE CONF
Okay, so the student advisors are in Appleton Tower on
the sixth floor.
NOTE CONF
They're in that room right opposite 606.
They're there all the time during office hours.
NOTE CONF
You don't need to know who your own personal student
advisor is.
NOTE CONF
You can just drop in.
There'll always be students advisors there.
NOTE CONF
If your own one's not there, they'll just.
Somebody else will help you.
NOTE CONF
They're really, really useful.
If you have academic questions about courses and stuff, your
NOTE CONF
cohort lead, you probably don't know your co-leads so well.
You should have met them in Welcome Week.
NOTE CONF
But you can see on Euclid, but also your student
advisor can put you in touch with the cohort leader,
NOTE CONF
which is probably the easiest way.
Um, if you feel you need support with wellbeing, then
NOTE CONF
student advisors can can refer you to the wellbeing service.
Um, but also there is this page, the health and
NOTE CONF
wellbeing service at the University of Edinburgh.
If you just Google health and Wellbeing at Edinburgh, you'll
NOTE CONF
get this.
You can book in for appointments.
NOTE CONF
There's lots of resources I think.
Where are they based?
NOTE CONF
I can't remember actually, but they'll say say here.
So this is really useful.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so now on some important stuff, which is what
biscuits we're going to have.
NOTE CONF
Um, so I've also I've put an option down here
that I could bring fruit if people don't want biscuits
NOTE CONF
every week.
So you can choose that if you like that.
NOTE CONF
I'm just going to leave that up when I move
on to doing other things.
NOTE CONF
I don't know if you know what Scottish biscuits are.
I don't think that's their proper name.
NOTE CONF
They're the ones with like raisins in there called, like,
I don't know what they're called.
NOTE CONF
My sister always called them Scottish fly biscuits.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So what are we doing now?
We are moving on to do some Java.
NOTE CONF
We are doing the Java API this week, so this
is stuff.
NOTE CONF
We've a little bit touched on this before, and this
is about some of the functionality of how we do
NOTE CONF
things in Java.
But this also carries over to a lot of other
NOTE CONF
programming languages okay.
So built in classes.
NOTE CONF
So we've already used built in classes.
We talked a little bit last week about built in
NOTE CONF
classes.
Right.
NOTE CONF
And this is the Java API is the class library
of all the things that are built into Java and
NOTE CONF
that you can use without having to worry about how
they're implemented.
NOTE CONF
So again, we saw a diagram like this a couple
of weeks ago or last week or something.
NOTE CONF
I don't know about how you interact with the implementation.
So the point of the API here is to protect
NOTE CONF
the user from the implementation, right?
So when we're doing like print print stuff, whatever, we
NOTE CONF
don't care how that's implemented.
I don't want to go into the code to see
NOTE CONF
how it's printed out.
I just want to know this is the thing I
NOTE CONF
can use that's going to do the thing that I
want, right?
NOTE CONF
So the API is what allows me to me to
interact with the implementation without actually having to care about
NOTE CONF
what's in the implementation.
So this just makes it way easier for me.
NOTE CONF
But also it means that the underlying implementation can be
changed without affecting the user.
NOTE CONF
So all you need to keep the same, you need
to keep the basic functionality, what it's doing the same,
NOTE CONF
and the inputs and outputs are the same.
If you're changing those, then you're going to be screwing
NOTE CONF
up things for users.
But if you keep those the same and you change
NOTE CONF
how it's implemented, then that's not the concern of the
user, which makes life way, way easier.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So some of the things that we've looked at already.
NOTE CONF
So print um, strings generating random numbers, all of this
stuff.
NOTE CONF
Now clearly we don't want every user to just be
figuring all this out from, from, um, from basics.
NOTE CONF
We we want this built in so that because people
are doing it all the time, it's a total waste
NOTE CONF
of time to get every user to do this.
And generally, people want to do this in exactly the
NOTE CONF
same way as all the other users.
All the other.
NOTE CONF
All the all the things that you're coding yourself are
things that you're particularly coding for, the things that you
NOTE CONF
want to achieve.
And you might be conceiving this in different ways to
NOTE CONF
other people.
You might be doing different things with them so they
NOTE CONF
wouldn't be in the library.
But the things that are just general people are going
NOTE CONF
to want to do the same things with them, and
they're going to want to do it a lot.
NOTE CONF
This is the kind of thing you get in the
library.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so packages we haven't talked about packages, I don't
think.
NOTE CONF
But packages are how you organise classes together.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So we've talked quite a lot about what you want
to change together stays together or code where the logic
NOTE CONF
is um, whether logically similar or they belong together, you
keep the code in the same place and this is
NOTE CONF
what classes are for.
But then classes also work together and you can put
NOTE CONF
these in packages, okay.
The code that needs to be chained together live together
NOTE CONF
classes are not enough because.
Because you might want to change classes together.
NOTE CONF
Oh, this is quite out of date, sorry I did.
I did mean to update this, but in the end
NOTE CONF
I thought, I mean it's just it's just illustrative.
Illustrative.
NOTE CONF
How do I say that?
Illustrative.
NOTE CONF
Anyway, um, I didn't update it because it's the same
point, but this is basically showing you that there's tons
NOTE CONF
and tons of classes in the library.
It actually got a little bit less between 10 and
NOTE CONF
11 because I did a bit of organisation.
So sometimes periodically things go through, people go go through.
NOTE CONF
And some of the old classes aren't used, but generally
there's a lot of stuff you can use and it's
NOTE CONF
growing over time.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So you don't just want thousands and thousands of classes
all over the place.
NOTE CONF
You want to organise them into packages.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So think of packages as subfolders.
Um, and within those are the classes.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So for example we've got the Java.lang package that has
NOTE CONF
various classes for using things like integers or integer maths
and strings.
NOTE CONF
So remember um, string is not a primitive, but it
is something that you can just use without doing the
NOTE CONF
coding yourself.
That's because it's in java.lang.
NOTE CONF
Uh, Java util has got res and date arrays and
dates and scanners and various other things, utility things.
NOTE CONF
So you think these are all utility things?
These are all things to do with language.
NOTE CONF
Put them in a package that's relevant okay.
And you can see the naming convention.
NOTE CONF
We've seen this dot.
This dot does a lot of heavy lifting in Java.
NOTE CONF
We use it for a lot of things here.
We're using it um to indicate that this is what
NOTE CONF
the package name is.
The package name is util or the package name is
NOTE CONF
lang.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So let's have a look at this okay I'll just
get my notes out.
NOTE CONF
Remind me what it is that I want to do
okay.
NOTE CONF
So let's go to IntelliJ and have a look at
this.
NOTE CONF
And I'm going to I'm going to actually actually I'm
going to bring up calculator.
NOTE CONF
First of all just to show you an example of
something we've looked at before okay.
NOTE CONF
And I'm going to get rid of this okay.
So I've changed it to dark I think that's what
NOTE CONF
people indicate a preference for.
But if um if you don't like the dark just
NOTE CONF
let me know.
Is that okay?
NOTE CONF
Can you see that?
All right.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So here we're using this built in method to string.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So at the moment it's complaining that it doesn't know
NOTE CONF
what two string is okay.
And this is because two string is in a package
NOTE CONF
and I haven't I haven't imported that package.
So if you're using a built in package you have
NOTE CONF
to import it so that um, so that the code
can access it.
NOTE CONF
It's not automatically accessing everything in the library.
Um, it's only accessing the things you're telling it to
NOTE CONF
import that keeps it.
It helps with memory and it's more organised.
NOTE CONF
So I have to tell it where to look for
this.
NOTE CONF
Right.
And this is in the class arrays okay.
NOTE CONF
So here first of all it's like I don't know
what two string is.
NOTE CONF
But now it's like okay you've told me where two
string is, but I don't know what arrays are.
NOTE CONF
And that's because I haven't imported, um, the util, which
is the package in which arrays can be found.
NOTE CONF
Now because intelligence is very useful.
I don't have to do this myself.
NOTE CONF
I can ask it to do it for me.
So here where it says cannot resolve symbol arrays, it
NOTE CONF
gives me the option to import class.
So if I import it, it just it knows where
NOTE CONF
this is.
It's in the utils class.
NOTE CONF
So I'm not importing all of util.
I'm just importing class arrays which is in the package
NOTE CONF
util and now is happy with this.
It's not happy here because I still haven't told it
NOTE CONF
where to look for it, but now I'm telling it.
Yeah, this this is in the class arrays and it
NOTE CONF
knows where that is because I've imported the package in
which it can be found.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Oh, interesting.
NOTE CONF
Fruit is the clear winner.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I'm bringing too many biscuits.
Maybe I'll bring some grapes this time then.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay, so now we'll look at the date printer.
I'm going to start.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to start a new project here.
I haven't actually done that for a while.
NOTE CONF
Um, and I'm going to call it Date Printer five.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And here I'm going to create a new Java class,
Us, which is also going to be called deep into
NOTE CONF
five.
Uh, okay.
NOTE CONF
Not sure why I was doing that.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So what I want to do here, I just simply
want to find out what the day to day is.
NOTE CONF
And I'm going to do that by creating a new
instance of date.
NOTE CONF
What data date and doesn't like this?
Because I haven't told it.
NOTE CONF
The class and the class is date.
So I want to create a new instance of something.
NOTE CONF
Um, there's of type date and I'm not giving it
so data something that doesn't need any arguments because what
NOTE CONF
it does is it just fetches whatever the current date
and time is.
NOTE CONF
And then I'm going to print that out.
Oops.
NOTE CONF
Oh yeah okay.
It's not going to complete it.
NOTE CONF
Let me so it doesn't it's not going to let
you complete things you don't that you can't do that.
NOTE CONF
So it's upset about this.
And why is it upset about this.
NOTE CONF
It's upset about this because I haven't told it where
it doesn't know I'm using a method doesn't know where
NOTE CONF
it is.
So if this is a message, I'm sorry, a method
NOTE CONF
I'm defining myself.
I then need to do what we've seen before.
NOTE CONF
Also, sorry I haven't put a main method in which
is a bit of a problem.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so now actually might might allow me to print
stuff out.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
So I have to tell it what it needs to
know what date is.
NOTE CONF
This is not something I'm defining myself.
I don't have to create this method.
NOTE CONF
I have to tell it where to find it.
So there's two ways I can do it.
NOTE CONF
I can just say, right, this is in Java util.
So I can just do Java util date there and
NOTE CONF
over here okay.
And this can be a useful way to do it
NOTE CONF
if you're only referring it to a once.
But it gets a little bit unwieldy because every time
NOTE CONF
you want to use anything in here, you have to
type it out and fill.
NOTE CONF
So what I can do instead is I can just
use the import statement and then I don't need these.
NOTE CONF
And again IntelliJ can help me with that.
And it's asking me do I want to import the
NOTE CONF
class.
Again there's two different kinds of dates.
NOTE CONF
There's one in util and the one in SQL package,
and I want to import the one that's in the
NOTE CONF
util package.
So it will then here import this this class for
NOTE CONF
me.
And then the package the class within the package.
NOTE CONF
And then if I run that it's going to work.
So this is what it inputs.
NOTE CONF
This is what outputs.
It tells me that this is the date.
NOTE CONF
Thursday February the 6th.
Then this is the time.
NOTE CONF
And that's just the format that it automatically does it
in date, although there's ways to change that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So and this is exactly what I was saying.
NOTE CONF
You're creating this new instance of date and you're telling
it the package.
NOTE CONF
But the easier way is to import the package before
you start.
NOTE CONF
You can.
So you can see here it's importing the specific class.
NOTE CONF
You can use the star to import everything.
It's not considered best practice because um, then you're just
NOTE CONF
importing a ton of stuff you don't use.
It's better just to import the stuff that you do
NOTE CONF
use, but it's workable and you can do it.
Oh, that reminds me.
NOTE CONF
I didn't answer the questions from last week.
There was something similar to that in there.
NOTE CONF
I must remember to do that before the end of
the lecture.
NOTE CONF
The questions that came up in woohoo clap last time.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And here we've got another example of static inputs.
So static inputs allow you to skip class identifiers for
NOTE CONF
calling class methods or using static constants.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So here we've got.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we're creating we're importing the calendar package.
And we're saying here that within that we want to
NOTE CONF
find.
So there's a static constant inside calendar.
NOTE CONF
And year is um something that you'll find is a
constant that you're going to find in calendar.
NOTE CONF
Um, and here.
So the point here is that you have to every
NOTE CONF
time you're doing this, you have to put this dot
calendar and to say that this is where the static
NOTE CONF
constant will be.
Um, but here we can import static.
NOTE CONF
Right.
And that's going to we're importing all of the static
NOTE CONF
constants in calendar.
And now when we look at getting the year, the
NOTE CONF
month and the day of the month, we don't have
to put dot calendar.
NOTE CONF
So here what we're doing here is we're importing the
class with the methods.
NOTE CONF
And here we're importing the static constants okay.
So we will um we'll look at more examples of
NOTE CONF
that later if that's not completely clear.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So as you've seen we're using string and math a
lot.
NOTE CONF
But we never but we don't have to import anything.
Why is that.
NOTE CONF
You don't have to import java.lang.
Um, we've used if you look back at some of
NOTE CONF
the coding that's using strings and stuff, we haven't imported
anything.
NOTE CONF
Java.lang is just imported invisibly all the time.
It can always access anything in Java.lang without importing.
NOTE CONF
So that's why you don't need import statements.
Okay, so we can create our own package.
NOTE CONF
So say we are creating a data app and we
want to put different classes in it.
NOTE CONF
So one of these, this class here, um, that uh,
so date printer, this is something that we're going to
NOTE CONF
want to put into a package.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So here you can see there's just, just a class
on its own.
NOTE CONF
But we want to make a package and we'll put
other things around the data now.
NOTE CONF
So this is just one of the classes that we
want to have in our thing in our little date
NOTE CONF
app.
So I'm going to create a package or I'm going
NOTE CONF
to set a tell.
Um I'm going to tell Java that this is part
NOTE CONF
of a package.
And we're going to call it this.
NOTE CONF
Dot out.
This is the output okay.
NOTE CONF
Is in this.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So Java is not happy about it.
IntelliJ is not happy.
NOTE CONF
Um, let's see why it isn't happy because um, I've
told it that Date Printer five is in this data
NOTE CONF
package, but it's like, well, it's not this is this
is the structure, right?
NOTE CONF
It isn't in a package.
So I'm telling you what I'm telling it is not
NOTE CONF
true.
But because IntelliJ is very useful, it will it will
NOTE CONF
do this for me.
So it says, do you want me to move this
NOTE CONF
to the right package?
If I can get the mouse to work properly.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So I can just click this and it's going to
NOTE CONF
do that.
And now sorry I didn't actually that was really unclear.
NOTE CONF
I should have I should have clicked on source.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
That was super unhelpful.
Um, because I wasn't actually showing you this at all.
NOTE CONF
So Date Printer five is now a class within this
package, and this has just appeared as you couldn't see
NOTE CONF
because I hadn't got that expanded.
But if I'd have shown you this before I did
NOTE CONF
that import, um, this line here would not have existed,
right?
NOTE CONF
This is something that's just the structure has been changed
by IntelliJ because I'm here explicitly changing the structure by
NOTE CONF
saying, actually, I want to put this into a package
or a subfolder.
NOTE CONF
That's all about things for dates.
So I'm putting these things together.
NOTE CONF
Well, I say these things.
There's only one class there at the moment, but you
NOTE CONF
would do that if you wanted to create a lot
of other classes related to them.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so here you can see under source in this
example we've got various packages.
NOTE CONF
We've got an error package.
Uh so yeah we've got an error package.
NOTE CONF
We've got exec.
We've got other classes that are not packaged.
NOTE CONF
So the structure of this of packages can get quite
complex.
NOTE CONF
And depending I mean as with everything, don't overcomplicate things
because it gets harder to maintain.
NOTE CONF
But in some situations you might want quite a bit
of different packages.
NOTE CONF
You might even want layers and packages.
So, um, yeah, you, uh, you can do that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So packages maintain their own isolated namespaces.
NOTE CONF
So, um, normally start with calm.
We've seen a bit why this is true.
NOTE CONF
This is because of how it relates to HTTP.
Um, but classes with the same name can coexist in
NOTE CONF
the same program if they're in different packages.
So that can be quite useful.
NOTE CONF
You can call things the things the same name if
you put them in different packages.
NOTE CONF
So here we've got utils, we've got two different utils
and one is utils for graphics and one is utils
NOTE CONF
for io.
So that could be useful with basic package names.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we can go to the.
NOTE CONF
So being aware of Java um the Java API API
documentation is a really important part of being a coder.
NOTE CONF
So I actually just noticed that this was really out
of date in the slides I originally had up.
NOTE CONF
I've updated this to the most recent one.
Um, if you downloaded the slides before about an hour
NOTE CONF
ago, this will link to the out-of-date one.
Doesn't actually make really any difference for what I'm trying
NOTE CONF
to show you.
Um, okay, so if you go to Java API, this
NOTE CONF
is what it looks like.
So these are all the things that are built in.
NOTE CONF
So let's have a little look at for example string
because strings something we've done stuff about.
NOTE CONF
So it's saying write string is a class within the
lang package.
NOTE CONF
So let's have a look at the documentation in here.
So class string is defining what a class string is.
NOTE CONF
There's a lot of documentation here that you can read
about explains what strings are.
NOTE CONF
And then here you get the different constructors.
So we have only ever looked at one way of
NOTE CONF
constructing a string.
And that is just this string with no arguments.
NOTE CONF
We're just saying this thing is a string.
There is actually lots of different ways you can do
NOTE CONF
this with bytes and all sorts of things, which we
may look at later on, but we won't look at
NOTE CONF
anything from B in in from B just this is
the only constructor we're looking at.
NOTE CONF
But the point is classes can have lots of different
constructors depending on what you actually want to do with
NOTE CONF
objects in that class.
You'll also see this deprecated stuff.
NOTE CONF
Um, this is old methods that did exist and are
not being used anymore.
NOTE CONF
They keep them in the documentation so that you can
see why.
NOTE CONF
Perhaps legacy code isn't working because they say, oh well,
that was using this and now it's been deprecated.
NOTE CONF
So these are all the methods um, and you can
look at different, you can look at different categories and
NOTE CONF
they'll have all the deprecated methods in there, which is
useful if you're trying to find where something doesn't work.
NOTE CONF
Um, some of these you're familiar with what we've looked
at.
NOTE CONF
So equals equals.
So this is saying equals is something that takes in
NOTE CONF
an object and it returns a boolean.
Um, and what it's actually doing is it's comparing the
NOTE CONF
string to the specified object.
So whatever object you pass on pass in does it.
NOTE CONF
Is it the same as the string we've seen that
we've seen.
NOTE CONF
Let's me see we've seen length.
Um so length doesn't take in any arguments.
NOTE CONF
You just apply it to a string and it returns
an integer which is the length.
NOTE CONF
So some of you may have come across things like
char at I think some of you were using that
NOTE CONF
in tutorials, which returns the index at a character at
a particular values at.
NOTE CONF
So there's loads and loads of these compared to concat.
These are all like most of these are useful.
NOTE CONF
Some of these you'll use a lot.
So if you're trying to do things with strings, the
NOTE CONF
first thing you do is go to the API and
see what built and stuff it has that you can
NOTE CONF
already use.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So let's try using some of those.
Let's.
NOTE CONF
Have a look at string test one.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So I'm going to do a little bit of coding
about to determine whether a string is a palindrome.
NOTE CONF
So who knows what a palindrome is.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Does anyone want to explain for people who don't.
Okay I'll explain.
NOTE CONF
So a palindrome is just something that reads the same
forwards or backwards, whether you start at the beginning of
NOTE CONF
the end.
So for example, simply the name Anna is a palindrome
NOTE CONF
because whichever way you read it, it's the same.
You can have or it could be they're either got.
NOTE CONF
They are either the same up into the middle, or
they've got a middle, uh, a middle character that.
NOTE CONF
So it doesn't matter how long it is.
Is what I'm saying.
NOTE CONF
This is also a palindrome.
You can have much longer things a man.
NOTE CONF
A plan, a canal.
Panama.
NOTE CONF
That's quite pertinent at the moment with all the stuff
about Panama.
NOTE CONF
So if you look at the letters, you can see
that they, um, they're all the same either way.
NOTE CONF
And they end in this middle letter C.
So that is what a palindrome is.
NOTE CONF
So what we're going to do is we're going to
write a little method to have a look at, to
NOTE CONF
test whether we're passing in a string.
And we're going to return a boolean value as to
NOTE CONF
whether or not it's a palindrome.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So what I want to do is I'm going to
find out how long this string is and then go
NOTE CONF
in from the answer from from one side and from
the other side, and check whether the characters are the
NOTE CONF
same.
So I need to know the length.
NOTE CONF
Uh, so integer n is um, string length.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So already I'm using this built in thing that you
saw in the API.
NOTE CONF
And I have a for loop.
So for integer I equals zero.
NOTE CONF
And they want to keep going half way through because
I'm coming at both ends at the same time.
NOTE CONF
So I only need to go halfway through the string
until I get to the middle.
NOTE CONF
So I want to keep going for until it's less
than n divided by two.
NOTE CONF
Um, and I want to iterate each time.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And what I want to say is if I'm looking
at the first letter and the last letter, if these
NOTE CONF
are not the same, it's not a palindrome.
Forget it.
NOTE CONF
If they are the same, maybe it's a palindrome.
Let's keep on looking at the next ones.
NOTE CONF
So if these are not the same.
So I want to first check for when they're not
NOTE CONF
the same because then I can immediately jump out of
the testing.
NOTE CONF
So if strings are at.
So here we're using a built in method chart at
NOTE CONF
which is going to.
So if I go back to documentation.
NOTE CONF
So char at I need to give it an integer
and it's going to return whatever character is at that
NOTE CONF
point at that index in the string.
So I want the first one, which is whatever's at
NOTE CONF
I.
And I want this not to be equal to.
NOTE CONF
You haven't seen this before.
But exclamation equal means not.
NOTE CONF
I mean, generally explanation means not.
Exclamation mark means not.
NOTE CONF
And I've got string char at.
So n minus one minus I puts me in the
NOTE CONF
right place if that's not clear.
Have a think about that.
NOTE CONF
Uh, then what do I want to do?
I want to return false.
NOTE CONF
These are not the same.
It's not a palindrome.
NOTE CONF
And I go through that whole loop.
And if I never jump out, if it's ever not
NOTE CONF
right, I'm going to jump out.
If I never jump out, then that means it is
NOTE CONF
a palindrome.
So I'm going to return true.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So either way there's a boolean outcome for this.
NOTE CONF
So all the red stuff has disappeared is happy with
this now.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Why have I got all these brackets.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
so now I'm going to send something to it.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Let's say answer equals is palindrome.
NOTE CONF
Um, I'm going to put a string here.
Is palindrome string.
NOTE CONF
And then print that out.
Answer.
NOTE CONF
And what.
So what is the type of answer.
NOTE CONF
What do I need to put here?
Brilliant.
NOTE CONF
Yeah that's right.
It's a boolean.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And now I need to put in.
NOTE CONF
Oh, sorry.
That should not be uppercase.
NOTE CONF
Let's just call this str, okay?
So what do we want to check.
NOTE CONF
Give me give me something we want to check whether
it's palindrome or not.
NOTE CONF
Taco cat.
Very good.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Is this a palindrome?
NOTE CONF
Yes, this is a palindrome, but if I do Taco
cat two.
NOTE CONF
This is not a palindrome.
I could also take out the middle letter of Taco
NOTE CONF
cat and just have tat cat.
Is that.
NOTE CONF
Is that a palindrome?
That is a palindrome.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so this is just a little example of using
some of these built in things to make life way
NOTE CONF
easier for you if you're trying to do that without
using that, that would be fiddly and annoying.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so these are all things that might be useful.
We've looked at char at concat we can do.
NOTE CONF
Let's just have a look at concat.
So we've looked at using the plus which is fine
NOTE CONF
way to do it.
But you can also use the built in method.
NOTE CONF
So.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Give me a string someone.
Just a word or an expression.
NOTE CONF
Tree okay.
And now I'm going to make string two, which is
NOTE CONF
going to be a string one concatenated with another, uh,
string.
NOTE CONF
Give me another string.
Huh.
NOTE CONF
Apple.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And then I'm going to print out string two.
What was the answer.
NOTE CONF
Tree.
Apple okay.
NOTE CONF
So it's just putting these together exactly as we would
with.
NOTE CONF
Plus sometimes it's easy to do.
Plus sometimes using plus gets really messy.
NOTE CONF
And it's easier to use this built in method there.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Compared to um ends with ends with is really useful.
What's the final um oh does does a string that's
NOTE CONF
boolean.
Does a, does a string end with a certain thing
NOTE CONF
that you pass into it.
What is the index of.
NOTE CONF
So here index of.
This is a good example of when things are overloaded.
NOTE CONF
Overloaded means it's doing more than one thing like.
Plus is introducing integer addition and string concatenation and so
NOTE CONF
forth.
So here Indexof either takes one argument which is a
NOTE CONF
string and it returns.
So say we're doing.
NOTE CONF
Let me just show you this.
Um oops.
NOTE CONF
Integer index equals uh, let's say string one dot index
of.
NOTE CONF
Um okay.
What let's do um two.
NOTE CONF
And then we're going to just print our index.
Oh sorry.
NOTE CONF
That makes no sense.
Uh, yeah.
NOTE CONF
No, sorry.
That's not how you use it.
NOTE CONF
Have a look at the, um.
So minus one means that it doesn't exist.
NOTE CONF
Have a look at what it's actually saying.
What I'm supposed to be passing in is the string
NOTE CONF
that I'm trying to find out where this index is.
So I'm going to say E.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
What's the index of E?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So.
NOTE CONF
So it sends.
So it gives me two.
NOTE CONF
Right.
But E is actually at two and three.
NOTE CONF
So if we just put an index of with just
the string, that means the very first time that string
NOTE CONF
occurs.
But also I can have an index of with an
NOTE CONF
integer I, which means start searching at a particular place.
So I'm going to say start searching at two and
NOTE CONF
then tell me the next time you find an E.
Start searching at three because if you start at two
NOTE CONF
it's going to find that two.
And now it's saying okay, there's also one at three.
NOTE CONF
But if I was, for example, looking for a T
or an R in index three, it's going to say
NOTE CONF
minus one doesn't exist.
Whereas if I get rid of this and I say
NOTE CONF
just look anywhere in that string, it should give me
an answer.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, it's going to say it's a position one.
Um, an index of.
NOTE CONF
An index of gun.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So there's various ways you can do these.
Um.
NOTE CONF
There's lots.
So there's about five different ways you can do index
NOTE CONF
of.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So there's lots these these things are all useful.
You'll get really familiar with them okay.
NOTE CONF
But in Java just just as a point to remember
strings are immutable.
NOTE CONF
But that means you can't change strings using these operations.
You're just finding out things about these operations okay.
NOTE CONF
So code for this.
Let me just check the time okay.
NOTE CONF
Oh that's fine.
Um, so this is a palindrome when we looked at
NOTE CONF
this is extracting file names and extension from a command
line argument.
NOTE CONF
So here we want to look at substrings of we're
using index of um so we're trying to find we've
NOTE CONF
got a long string of things.
We're trying to find the dot.
NOTE CONF
And then we're looking at what comes before the dot
and what comes after the dot.
NOTE CONF
So that's quite a common thing to do with strings.
Um, what's happening here.
NOTE CONF
So here we're using read line.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we're printing all lines from standard input containing the
string info.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we're reading each line and then we're saying does
NOTE CONF
this line contain info.
If so, print it.
NOTE CONF
If not, ignore it.
So we're looking for all the things.
NOTE CONF
So we might have tag things with info.
That's what we want to print out.
NOTE CONF
Other things are not relevant.
Um here we're looking for uh, URLs from Edinburgh.
NOTE CONF
Oh no.
Any academic URL.
NOTE CONF
So we want a URL that's we want something that
starts with HTTP and it's going to end with UK.
NOTE CONF
That's, that means that's what we're looking for.
So here we're using starts with and ends with.
NOTE CONF
So using these built in things we can do lots
of interesting and fun things.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So now we're looking at something a little bit different
NOTE CONF
which is about formatting strings.
So some of you were using this I think this
NOTE CONF
came up a little bit in the tutorial.
Um so print that's we've mostly we've only done printing
NOTE CONF
so far with print Lynn or just print.
So, so this is print is just the basic functionality.
NOTE CONF
LNE means add a return line afterwards.
So you have to pass it in everything you want.
NOTE CONF
Right?
But so here we can use concatenation to make a
NOTE CONF
longer string.
Um, and this is okay in simple cases if we
NOTE CONF
just want to say the student name Lee is aged
18, this is what we can do.
NOTE CONF
Um, but it's a little bit inelegant.
And if we have tons of these things, that can
NOTE CONF
be really annoying.
So there's nicer ways of formatting this stuff, and we
NOTE CONF
do.
So this is the this is the string that we
NOTE CONF
want to produce.
Um, and so this is the basic string.
NOTE CONF
And into this we want to slot variables.
We want we want lots of maybe lots of examples
NOTE CONF
of this with different instantiations of that.
And so what we use are these format specifiers.
NOTE CONF
And those are uh percentage.
So the percentage indicates something is going to go here.
NOTE CONF
So you're waiting for a variable to fill in a
space.
NOTE CONF
That's what percentage means in a string like this.
Um, and s means the kind of thing that it's
NOTE CONF
expecting.
So.
NOTE CONF
S means it's expecting that to be a string now.
I've said before that strings are kind of black box.
NOTE CONF
And when you're doing things with it, Java's not looking
inside the string.
NOTE CONF
It's just treating it as a whole object.
This is an exception to that case.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So if you have a percentage it's going to look
NOTE CONF
in and it's going to know that that means something
specific and it's going to behave differently.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So the percentage is a placeholder is a placeholder.
NOTE CONF
And percentage S is a placeholder for a string.
And these are called format specifiers.
NOTE CONF
And when you actually do something with it the format
specifier will be replaced by an actual value.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So here we're using string dot format.
NOTE CONF
So the command is format.
And we have.
NOTE CONF
This is the string we want to create with the
gaps.
NOTE CONF
And then after that we have as many arguments as
we have percentage signs which is telling us what is
NOTE CONF
going to go in there.
So here something called name is going to go in
NOTE CONF
the first one and something called age is going to
go in the second one.
NOTE CONF
And these have got to be the the types have
got to match.
NOTE CONF
So these have both got to be strings and name
clearly is a string.
NOTE CONF
Age might be a string or it might be an
integer, probably.
NOTE CONF
And that's fine.
It doesn't mind if it's an integer because it will
NOTE CONF
automatically convert an integer to a string.
But if I put in, well, I'll show you that
NOTE CONF
in a minute.
So let's just have a look at this in IntelliJ.
NOTE CONF
We'll just do it in here.
So string one is now going to be.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So I'm going to do string is string dot format.
NOTE CONF
So I'm saying the method I want you to apply
here is format.
NOTE CONF
What is format is something that you find defined within
the class string.
NOTE CONF
So the student named what is the name.
It's going to be a string I'm passing in.
NOTE CONF
So percentage s o.
And I think we had for some I don't really
NOTE CONF
know why there's a single quote marks around those, but
we'll just do that anyway.
NOTE CONF
To show that that can work is age percentage s.
And then I'm going to have.
NOTE CONF
And now I'm going to pass in a name and
an age.
NOTE CONF
Or I could just do this directly.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Give me a, give me a name someone might have.
James.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And this has been named how old is James?
NOTE CONF
40.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Mature student.
Awesome.
NOTE CONF
This is not happy here.
We know why that is because I haven't told it
NOTE CONF
what the type is.
And then I'm going to, um, let's print out.
NOTE CONF
Uh, string.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So if we print that out.
The student named James is age 40.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Now, obviously there's no point doing this if we're just
NOTE CONF
immediately putting what we want to be printed out inside
the format statement.
NOTE CONF
The point of this is that you can do with
variables.
NOTE CONF
So we can say here name is James.
And age is 40 and name is a string, and
NOTE CONF
age is an integer.
And then.
NOTE CONF
Name and age in here.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And that does exactly the same thing.
So now we can see we could be passing in
NOTE CONF
arrays with tons of data or whatever.
And it's going to do the same thing for all
NOTE CONF
of these.
Very useful.
NOTE CONF
So very often you want to create strings that are
formatted like this.
NOTE CONF
But in this case all we're doing is we're creating
the string and we're printing it out.
NOTE CONF
So then we don't actually need to create the string
separately.
NOTE CONF
We can create this within a print statement.
So this time instead of doing print Len we do
NOTE CONF
print f.
This means this is a kind of print statement in
NOTE CONF
which formatting string formatting will occur.
So all I'm going to do is put in into
NOTE CONF
that printf statement exactly what I put into the format
statement.
NOTE CONF
Get rid of that.
Don't need that.
NOTE CONF
Oops.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So that does exactly the same thing.
So if if it's easy enough to do it within
NOTE CONF
the print statement, you don't need to create this string
and then print it just to just do all that
NOTE CONF
work within the print printf statement.
Um, but if you want to do other things with
NOTE CONF
the string then probably using format is useful.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Printf statements.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
So here we've got an example.
This again this is expecting type string.
NOTE CONF
And we're sending it a character.
That's okay because Java can convert a character to a
NOTE CONF
string.
So it's not going to complain about this.
NOTE CONF
Um here we are using uh doubles doubles.
It cannot convert to a string.
NOTE CONF
So if we say here H is 40.5.
So I'm going to do that.
NOTE CONF
Um, because whoops that's a problem there.
Is this not going to work.
NOTE CONF
Oh that is going to work actually.
So it will.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we'll convert.
NOTE CONF
It will convert the double into a string.
Apologies about that.
NOTE CONF
But sometimes you don't want it to.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Sometimes you actually want it to be a double.
So what we're going to do here is we're going
NOTE CONF
to say, um, the value of pi is.
Uh, percentage f.
NOTE CONF
Um, and then what we're passing into that is um,
pi the value of pi, which is math dot pi.
NOTE CONF
So this is saying pi is a constant that is
defined within the maths package.
NOTE CONF
Oh sorry.
Yeah that's fine.
NOTE CONF
It's going to print it out.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So another useful thing you can see this chooses a
fairly arbitrary number of decimal points to print it out
NOTE CONF
to.
I don't know how it chooses that, but say we
NOTE CONF
wanted we only wanted two decimal places.
We can put in here two.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So percentage two with f so f.
NOTE CONF
By the way remember that this stands for float which
is kind of the same as a double.
NOTE CONF
A double is a float that has twice as much
storage.
NOTE CONF
For some reason, it's always double that we use for
the type and f for the to specify here.
NOTE CONF
So what we're doing here with the point two C
is just pointing out to two decimal places.
NOTE CONF
We can also put a slash n.
That means new line.
NOTE CONF
And that's going to well actually.
Oh sorry.
NOTE CONF
That's the right kind of slash.
Otherwise it's just a string.
NOTE CONF
And you can see this creates an empty line there
okay.
NOTE CONF
So just really quickly looking at code documentation we haven't
got very much time to do this.
NOTE CONF
Um okay.
So code documentation is really really, really important.
NOTE CONF
You have to tell people what's going on in your
code.
NOTE CONF
You have to tell yourself what's going on in your
code.
NOTE CONF
But when you come back to it, otherwise your code
is really, really hard to use.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So there's some basic ways of doing this.
NOTE CONF
So the easiest way is just to put in something
here with double slash you can say this is my
NOTE CONF
comment.
Or if it's over multiple lines, you do slash star.
NOTE CONF
And that automatically creates a closing dash star.
And you can say this is a comment okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is useful just for yourself.
If you want a little aside to yourself to remember
NOTE CONF
what's going on.
But the main thing you should be doing is you
NOTE CONF
should be creating Java documentation.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is if we put dash star star, this
creates Java documentation.
NOTE CONF
And actually let's just show it in here.
This is going to work better here as an example.
NOTE CONF
So I've got this method is palindrome I'm going to
put in my Java documentation.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
That's not a very good example because it's not bringing
NOTE CONF
up the parameters.
Okay I'm not quite sure what's going on there.
NOTE CONF
Um okay.
So.
NOTE CONF
Java documentation is automatically converted into HTML.
Um, so it contains Uh, so you can put HTML
NOTE CONF
tags in.
But this is creating documentation that's similar to what you
NOTE CONF
will see in the Java API.
You create your own stuff for your own methods.
NOTE CONF
And this is really easy to do.
You just have to use Java Doc and it does
NOTE CONF
it all for you.
Um, so it should be.
NOTE CONF
I'm not quite sure why it's not.
Why is Param not coming up?
NOTE CONF
Am I putting it in some wrong place?
Oh, yeah, I am.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
Ah.
NOTE CONF
Live coding.
Such a pain.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So sorry.
NOTE CONF
I was putting it inside the method.
That's not right.
NOTE CONF
You put it above the method.
Now here it's automatically providing param and return.
NOTE CONF
So.
Right.
NOTE CONF
It knows that something's coming in and it's a string.
And it knows that there is a return value.
NOTE CONF
So I put the string I want to check.
Put it in.
NOTE CONF
And um you probably want to put more, um, more
specific things, but but it gets you to explain what
NOTE CONF
goes in and what comes out, and then you want
more documentation explaining what's actually happening.
NOTE CONF
Um, so and the three things it automatically does is
parameter return and throw.
NOTE CONF
So throws as if there's any exception.
Here we look briefly at throwing.
NOTE CONF
This is throwing a null pointer exception.
So you need to explain that in the documentation.
NOTE CONF
Uh an IDE will automatically bring these things up for
you.
NOTE CONF
Uh okay.
So how much commenting do you need.
NOTE CONF
Every method, class and field contents should have Javadoc.
It will create this interface that's really useful within the
NOTE CONF
code.
How much you need?
NOTE CONF
Not very much.
Um, sometimes it's useful, so don't do it for super
NOTE CONF
simple things.
That's pointless.
NOTE CONF
This is really simple.
People can figure that out.
NOTE CONF
Don't waste time with commenting.
Um, don't say things that aren't true.
NOTE CONF
This sounds really obvious, but actually this is part of
code maintenance.
NOTE CONF
As you change your code, some of the documentation is
not going to be accurate.
NOTE CONF
It's really important to change the code documentation as you
change the code.
NOTE CONF
Um, so sometimes things get it makes it clearer.
But you should um.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So sometimes you can just do this by using sensible
NOTE CONF
names.
Right.
NOTE CONF
If you can do that, give things names that are
meaningful, then you don't have to put as much documentation
NOTE CONF
in.
Uh, that's kind of self commenting code, which is a
NOTE CONF
bit of a I mean, it's a bit of an
exaggeration.
NOTE CONF
Sometimes you need comments, but the more so here we've
got p names.
NOTE CONF
Then you don't need to explain that it's the names
of the participants that's kind of obvious.
NOTE CONF
Uh, don't do stuff like this.
It's very tempting, but it's kind of annoying and it's
NOTE CONF
not considered good practice.
Even though you will be, um, sometimes commenting or sometimes
NOTE CONF
working with code.
That's really annoying.
NOTE CONF
So every method, class and field within code just to
explain it.
NOTE CONF
If it's not obvious and you need to know, all
right, uh, and do consistent coding style just makes it
NOTE CONF
much easier to read.
You can have a look at the info and b
NOTE CONF
coding conventions, documents, um, third party libraries that are not
done by by Oracle who maintains Java.
NOTE CONF
Not done by you, but other people.
You can import those.
NOTE CONF
We'll look at those later.
They're jar files.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So that's the summary.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
That was right up against it.
NOTE CONF
Um, packages are really important for organisation.
API is really useful for building stuff and do comment
NOTE CONF
properly.
I'm just going.
NOTE CONF
You can start picking it up.
I'm just going to go to those a couple of
NOTE CONF
questions on Google Apps I should have looked at at
the beginning.
NOTE CONF
Bring fruit on Monday.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Oh, I forgot to put it on.
I should have put it on, too.
NOTE CONF
Uh, okay.
All right.
NOTE CONF
I'll go through things later.
I've also forgot to put it on, for I was
NOTE CONF
still on the biscuits, so probably nobody's asked any questions.
That's my bad.
NOTE CONF
Okay, we'll do that properly on Monday.
Sorry about that.
NOTE CONF
See you on Monday.